Hey folks, today we're going to do
another problem breakdown. This time for
newsfeed. For those new to the channel,
we're Hello Interview and we help
squeeze and em to nail their interviews.
I'm Stefan. I've been an interviewer and
bar raiser at Meta and Amazon and have
conducted north of 2,000 interviews at
this stage for all levels up to senior
staff and managers. Newsfeed is a fun
question because it requires careful
attention to data modeling details and
plays with concepts like fanout that end
up being very important across system
design problems.
For this problem, we'll focus on a now
dated variant of Facebook where users
could follow one another
unidirectionally and view a
chronological feed of posts. A more
modern newsfeed architecture would lean
heavily into MLbased ranking. While we
haven't yet covered news feeds in
particular, our video recommendation
breakdown is a great start if you're a
machine learning engineer and not
familiar with ranking and recommendation
systems. I'll link it somewhere. For the
rest of you who are strict software
engineers preparing for system design
interviews, let's get into it. If you'd
like to follow along with a written
version of this breakdown, I'll include
a link in the description and also
somewhere on screen. For all of the
problems we break down on this channel,
we'll be following the Hello Interview
delivery framework. This is just a
simple structure for solving problems
that keeps you focused on the things
that interviewers are looking for. What
we find in practice through tens of
thousands of mocks is that candidates
who have a system make more progress and
get stuck less often. So, we highly
recommend it. The setup is pretty
simple. First, we'll discuss
requirements with the interviewer, both
to nail down the constraints of the
problem and clarify any uncertainties we
might have. This is a good place to
figure out the crux of the problem or
the hardest part. More on that in a
second. Next, we'll outline the core
entities or the nouns involved. This is
key to designing a good data model and
API and it helps to orient you for the
next pieces of the problem. After that,
we'll build out an API for our system.
These are the stubs for our design. Once
we've credibly designed a system which
can implement these APIs, we're halfway
done. For some data processing design
problems, the next step is to build out
a data flow. This helps to clarify each
step in the system like a web crawler
needs to grab URLs, parse HTML, extract
URLs, etc., etc. In this problem, we
won't need to cover this. With our API
in place, we can start on our highle
design. Our goal with the initial highle
design is to satisfy our functional
requirements as simply as possible. This
usually means building a system that
doesn't scale and has some warts and
issues. That's okay. We'll make note of
those and come back to them later.
Finally, we'll move to our deep dives.
Here's where we'll proactively identify
bottlenecks of the system, satisfy any
lingering non-functional requirements,
and follow the interviewer's lead. if
they want to talk about something
specific. And hopefully by that point,
you've had time to whiteboard a working
system in 35 minutes. Easy enough. Let's
get into
it. We'll start with the requirements
for newsfeed. For functional
requirements, we need a system which is
going to allow us to create posts,
follow users, and view the resulting
feed. So, let's go ahead and add those
to our list. While you're building out
functional requirements, it can be
helpful to put yourself in the shoes of
a client of the system. Imagine you have
the app open. What data is displayed?
What options are available to you? With
newsfeed, we might note that users are
typically scrolling. We want them to be
able to consume a page full of
information and then keep going. So,
we're going to include that as a
functional requirement as well. If
you've done a good job of putting
yourself in the shoes of the user, you
might be thinking of additional
functionality. As an example, users
should be able to like and comment or
post can have privacy settings. I'd
recommend you keep things simple to
start and if requirements are getting
large beyond say three or four items,
mark extra things as below the line or
bonus, put bonus here. That way, it's
clear what's in scope for your system.
Note here that you don't necessarily
need to list these below the line items.
If you were starting from scratch and
running out of time, I'd actually
suggest just moving on to your
non-functional requirements rather than
talking about things that you're not
going to talk about. Keep in mind you do
have a fixed time available to you. So
don't rush the requirements, but don't
spend more than a few minutes here.
Next, we'll talk about non-functional
requirements. Here it's helpful to have
a discussion with your interviewer about
typical scaling trade-offs. Common
prompts you might ask yourself are
things like cap theorem. Do we require
consistency or can we favor
availability? Often times, this will
vary based on different functionalities
or parts of the design in this system.
It makes sense for us to utilize
eventual consistency. When users create
posts, they don't expect that they're
available they're immediately available
in users feeds, but they will be looking
for them to appear quickly. We can put
some numbers here both to make this
concrete and to help us with design
choices we'll make later. Let's assume
we have 1 minute before a post is
available in users
feeds. Next, let's talk about latency.
Users expect responsive UIs, which means
we have a few hundred milliseconds to
respond to requests before they start to
get annoyed. Let's use 500 milliseconds
as a roundtarget latency for both
posting and viewing.
Now let's think about scale. Knowing the
scale of a system will give us more
bounds on size and throughput we can use
later. Facebook is big, billions of
users. We don't need to know exactly. So
let's just assume two billion
users and move
on.
Our next stop is core entities.
Remember, these are the nouns we'll use
in the design. Depending on the problem,
there can be more or less discussion
here. For a newsfeed, our entities are
pretty simple. We have a
user, we have a post, and there is a
follow relationship. Fundamentally, news
feeds are about finding the post from
users you follow. We don't need to build
out a full-blown data model here. So,
I'm going to avoid attaching properties
or attributes to these entities. We'll
get to that as we start to fill out our
highle design. And that's it for our
entities. Now, let's move on to our API
design. The easiest way for us to build
out our APIs is to refer back to our
functional requirements and make sure we
have coverage of them. It's not always
the case that your API is onetoone with
your requirements. That's totally okay.
But we do need to ensure that our APIs
satisfy our requirements. Once we're
done, we'll know that our highle design
is complete when it implements all of
our
APIs. For this problem, we'll need three
APIs. First, we need a way to create a
post. Let's keep this simple with a
restful post endpoint. So, we'll post to
/posts and we might pass along the
content of the post. Let's assume that
we'll return a 2011 when it's
successful. And maybe we'll pass back
the post ID. Great. Our requirements
don't have anything more here, so we can
move on. For our next API, we need a way
for users to follow each other. We don't
have an explicit requirement for
unfollow, although that makes for a
sensible extension that some
interviewers might ask. Let's use REST
conventions to create a follower edge by
putting to the user's followers. So, we
will put /users ID followers. We don't
necessarily need a body here just
because there's really no metadata
that's associated with this. Finally, we
need a way for users to access their
feeds. Moreover, we need a way for them
to gradually pageionate through their
feeds. For this, let's create a get
endpoint for a virtual resource feed
that has both a page size and a cursor.
So, we'll get /feed. We'll pass in a
page size, which might be 25, and a
cursor. And this will return a set of
posts and a next cursor. Cursors are a
very common approach to pageionation. In
this case, our cursor could be a start
at time stamp, which tells us how deep
into the feed the user has traveled.
When a user loads a feed, they'll be
able to view a set of items from the
present time to some point x in the
past, which is the time of the last item
in that response. when they request
their feed again, they'll pass in that
time and retrieve the next set of n
items, all which are older than that
timestamp. This way, we can ensure that
the user is able to see every item
that's been published even as they query
deeper into their feed. With that, we
have our three APIs that satisfy all of
our functional requirements. Sometimes
people will ask, do I need to use REST
here? And the answer is not necessarily.
If you controlled all the clients, you
could use gRPC for instance. You could
even write these endpoints as function
signatures verse REST endpoints. But if
you haven't been doing it that way for a
while, I'd recommend instead you just
learn REST as it's very standard across
the industry and you'll likely avoid any
yellow flags from REST zealot
interviewers. No reason to go
non-standard if you don't need to. So
that's our API. The next step is our
highle design. Here's where we're going
to try to implement a system which
minimally satisfies our requirements.
While it's not strictly necessary, we
recommend to try to build out the most
basic system that satisfies the
requirements before you start to
optimize. The reason for this is simple.
Candidates often lose themselves in
micro optimizations that aren't actually
important before they get a working
system on the whiteboard. This can be a
major problem, especially if you run out
of time. So, let's get a working system
and then we can take a step back and
figure out where to optimize.
Our first requirement is to enable users
to create posts. This is pretty simple.
We need a service which is going to
accept our post requests and store them
in a database. For each post, we need to
keep track of who created it, its
content, and when it was posted. In this
problem, I'm going to use DynamoB as the
backing store, but you're free to
substitute in Cassandra or any other
scalable wide column store. We'll put
our post service behind an API gateway
and load balancer. We aren't getting
into the details just yet, but as
posting volume increases, we can scale
in more post services to handle the
incoming requests. Provided we don't
blow up Dynamo DB, this is actually
pretty scalable. So great, our first
requirement is out of the
way. Next, we need to allow users to
follow each other. Some candidates look
at this and immediately assume we need a
graph database. But this isn't the case
for this problem. Graph databases like
Neo Forj are really useful when you need
to do comprehensions like find all the
users who are followed by at least two
men who also follow each other. These
can be tricky queries to answer or
execute and often require specialized
query languages like cipher to even ask.
But in this problem, we only need to
answer queries like tell me all the
users who are following this user. So,
we're going to keep things simple. As a
quick aside, in interviews, I highly
recommend you start with simple
approaches that are tightly fit to your
specific needs versus adding a ton of
complexity earlier on. There's plenty of
time in the interview to layer on new
complexity as you need it. But, if you
tie yourself in a knot early on, you're
going to have a hard time getting
untangled in time. The simplicity of a
solution is a hallmark differentiator
for junior candidates versus more senior
ones. Here we're going to follow the
same model we did for post creation.
We'll have a follow service which
accepts requests from our clients and
writes to a follow table. In the follow
table, we need to support two obvious
types of queries. First, tell me all of
the users followed by A and then tell me
all of the users who A is following. The
way we're going to do this is putting a
partition key on user following and a
sort key on user followed. This will
allow us to list for a given user all
the users that they are following. To
support the reverse, we can create
what's known as a global secondary index
or gsi. In Cassandra world, this is just
a secondary index. You can think of the
global secondary index like another
table, but one that's managed internally
and consistently by Dynamob. On our gsi,
we can choose a different partition and
sort key. And for this, we'll choose the
reverse. Our partition key will be user
followed and our sort key will be user
following. When we want to query all the
users who are following a given user, we
can query this gsi at a particular
partition key and pull out all of the
users who are following a given user.
For the record, DynamoB puts a limit on
these range requests. You can return no
more than one megabyte of data. You can
then page into the results. Since our
user ID and metadata are on the order of
10 bytes, we can retrieve a bit less
than 100,000 entries per requests. This
will be a problem for our most followed
accounts, but a non-issue for everyone
else. Great, we're almost there. Let's
talk about the feed
next. Our third requirement is to be
able to view a chronological feed for a
user. We'll create a new service for
this because unlike the post and follow
services, this is a readheavy service
which will bear the full brunt of our
traffic. We'd expect far more people to
pull feeds than to create posts. For
instance, also generating the feed may
be computationally heavy depending upon
how many posts need to be merged
together. The feed service can interact
directly with the post and follow tables
to satisfy the requests. A micros
service fan will tell me I need to wrap
these tables behind APIs so that these
services aren't querying the same data.
But that's a huge waste here. The
decoupling benefits are dwarfed by the
overhead we introduce. But if you feel
like your interviewer is going to be a
stickler for microser best practices, go
for it. In the ideal state, the feed
service will take in a user ID and query
the follow table for all the users
they're following. Then we'll take that
list of users and query the post table
for each one of them to grab all the
recent posts for that user. Finally,
we'll merge all of these lists together
before returning them to the requesttor
as our feed. If this sounds problematic,
it is. There's a few big problems here,
but let's address the most costly ones
first. When we want to query our post
table, we need to be able to look up the
posts created by a specific user. We
can't do that currently with our primary
key being the ID of the post, which is
useful for pulling a specific post, but
not much else. So, we'll again create a
gsi sorted by creation time to do that.
Cool. We're halfway there, but alarm
bells should still be ringing for you.
What about if the user is following a
ton of other users? What if the creators
have a ton of posts? At this stage in
the interview, we're going to
acknowledge there are still problems
verbally to our interviewer and commit
to solving them in a few minutes when we
get into the deep dive. We want to keep
traction so that we can solve our core
functional requirements before we enter
our optimization loop. Our final
requirement is to support pageionation
so we can have a clean infinite scroll
experience for end users. To do this, we
need a way of grabbing pages of the
user's fee. Remember how earlier we
added a cursor argument to our API
design? That cursor indicated the oldest
timestamp the user had seen in their
feed. We can use that timestamp as a
filter as we go retrieve posts. So when
we query the post gsi for each user the
requester is following, we're going to
retrieve no more than the page size
number of elements and we're going to
query with a created at that is less
than the cursor. Basically, we're going
to grab the most recent posts before
this date. that allows us to page back
infinitely. And that concludes our
highle design. We have a system which
satisfies our functional requirements
and will work with a lot of users, but
not for users who follow or are followed
by a lot of
people. We'll start our deep dives by
addressing the problem headon. How can
we deal with accounts that follow a lot
of people? In our current design, if you
were following 10,000 people, then our
feed service needs to make 10,000
requests to the postgsi returning maybe
10 million aggregate posts, all of which
need to be merged and sorted in almost
real time before returning to the end
user. That's a lot of work, network
calls, etc. And we haven't even talked
about failures or tail latency. Yuck.
So, what can we do instead? Your
instinct here should be to think about
ways that we can compute the feed
results when the post is created rather
than at the time the user wants to read
their feed. And in fact, this is a
pretty good line of thinking. Let's add
a new table premputed feed to our
database. We could put this in a
separate cache, but I'll put it in
Dynamo just to make things easy. When
posts are created, we can read all the
users who are following that creator out
of the follow gsi and store the
resulting post ids into this table. Then
when we want to query our feed, our feed
service can read posts directly from the
premputed feed table. Super fast. We'll
want to keep this table manageable in
size. So we may only store the latest
200 posts in there. If we assume each
post ID is 10 bytes, to store 200 posts
per user, we'd need about two kilobytes
per user. Just as a gut check, 2
kilobytes is almost nothing and Facebook
earns about $100 per user annually in
the US. So this is a pretty reasonable
cost for us to bear. If we have 2
billion users, million mega billion,
giga, we need 2,000 gab or 2 terab of
storage for all these feeds. This is
quite reasonable for a modern system. So
that sounds great. What's the catch?
While this dramatically improved read
performance, it creates a new problem
for us. A pattern which will repeat
until the end of time. When a user who
has 10,000 or more followers creates a
new post, we suddenly need to write tens
of thousands of premputed feed records.
This is tough. While the biggest
accounts are rare and aren't posting
often, they create a thunderstorm of
activity that we need to handle. For
starters, we probably do not want to do
this synchronously in the post service
where we create the initial post. The
worst case is the hello interview
Facebook page needs to wait 60 seconds
to fire off its latest status update
just because we need to write to a bunch
of feeds. So, let's use an async worker
pool. We'll put together a set of
workers that are reading from a
centralized queue of post updates.
Whenever a post is created, we'll add an
entry to the queue. workers who pick up
this job will read from the follow gsi
to grab all of the users who we need to
write to their feeds. If this is a large
number, we might break it into smaller
sub jobs which are put back on the queue
so we can spread the load across many
feed workers. Once they have a list of
follows followers to work from, they'll
create entries in the premputed feed for
those users for the post ID in question.
With this solution in place, we've kind
of solved the problem by spreading out
the rights. But what about the truly
mega accounts, the Justin Bieber who
have hundreds of millions of followers?
Is broadcasting rights for them even
appropriate? I'd say probably not. We
even talked about some of the
limitations in pulling these followers
out of Dynamob earlier. Well, we'll need
to page through the results. We can
refine our design slightly by adding an
extra column to the follow table which
indicates whether the feed is premputed
for that relationship. We'll set this
flag when the account being followed has
a ton of followers, maybe 100,000 or
more. If it's set, we'll use the async
worker path. When a post is created by
that user, our feed workers will write
the resulting post ID into the premputed
feed table. If it's not set, the feed
workers will simply ignore that follow.
When the feed service receives an
inbound feed request, it will list out
all of the follows which are not
premputed, we'll grab the latest entries
from the post list from those accounts
like we did before the premputed feed
table. Finally, we'll merge the two
lists at runtime. From the preconmputed
feed table, we'll pull out the posts and
the latest end posts from all the
follows that weren't premputed and we'll
return those back to the user. This
hybrid approach gives us a nice blend of
both worlds. We can cap the number of
writes we'll need to do when a post is
created and limit the number of reads we
need to do when the feed is queried.
I'll note here that this rabbit hole
keeps going deeper. What if a user is
following a large number of huge
accounts? What happens when a user
unfollows another user? Does the
premputed flag ever reverse? I'll leave
some of these as an exercise for the
reader, but these questions are nearly
infinite and good followup. Do note that
many platforms will enforce enforce
product limits rather than engineer to
infinity. Google does not let you get to
page a thousand. LinkedIn caps the
number of connections you can have.
Sometimes it's just not worth
engineering around the
0001% of users. At some place, you throw
in the
tow. Let's touch on one more deep dive
before we wrap things up. So far, we've
been focused on getting the list of post
IDs that make up a given feed. But when
a popular account publishes a new post,
that means that post will be at the top
of the feed for a large number of users.
a huge number of accounts will suddenly
be querying for a singular post ID in
the post table. This is a recipe for a
big class of problems usually called
hotkey or hot shard. The problem is
systems like DynamoB while theoretically
scalable are only scalable as long as
you design your system within certain
parameters. One of DynamoB's assumptions
is that you need relatively even load
across all your keys. The reason for
this is pretty straightforward. The
partitions we've been talking about are
eventually physical hosts at some level.
And those physical hosts have real
performance limits. If all of your
requests go to host A, it doesn't matter
if there's a thousand other hosts ready
to handle different requests, you'll get
throttled or
fail. So our problem is that we're
getting a tidal wave of requests for
Justin's latest post and Dynamo DB is
throwing throttling exceptions. What can
we do? Well, the first option for us is
to shield that particular partition with
a distributed cache with a least
frequently used eviction policy and time
to live. TTL posts don't change often,
so keeping them around for a short
period should be okay. And we don't need
a ton of memory. We're only going to use
this for the most viral posts or those
with the most reach. This cache will
keep our hottest posts in memory,
diverting requests away from the
sensitive Dynamo DB partitions. Instead
of a million requests hitting Dynamo DB,
only one request does, which sounds like
a great idea. And this is a solution
that many mid-level and even senior
candidates propose, except it has the
same problem. If we have a distributed
post cache where we use the post ID to
shard the cache, the cache also has a
hotkey. Since Reddus is in memory, the
throughput of this cache might be enough
to absorb the load, but the same
fundamental problem exists. A simple
solution for this second problem is to
have multiple cache instances rather
than sharding our cache. Our feed
service will then randomly choose
amongst the instances that are
available. We don't even need these
instances to be replicas of one another
or to coordinate in any way. Now,
instead of limiting ourselves to one
request making its way through to
Dynamo, we'll instead have n requests
where n is the number of instances that
we have in our cache. But since that n,
the number of cache instances that we've
set up, is dramatically smaller than the
millions of requests that we were
expecting, this is a great trade-off and
allows us to solve the problem. There's
a lot of subtlety here, especially
around how you shard data. And
interviewers will pick and choose where
they expect you to go deeper. It's very
common for them to take control of the
interview at this stage and choose
specific weak points in your design that
they want to probe more deeply, even if
you've already acknowledged them. For
what it's worth, this is not necessarily
a sign that you've gotten something
wrong. It's just a way for them to drive
to the level of depth that they need to
get the signal they need. Remember that
interviews are not just about you
reciting a correct answer to a problem.
It's about observing your process for
solution design. A lot of signal the
interviewer is gathering to make a
hiring determination is implicit. It
doesn't actually show up on your
whiteboard. I'm going to stop deep dives
here for reasons of time, but all of
these types of deep dive questions are
why this particular problem is so
popular with interviewers. And the
answers generally follow the same
pattern. Identify a bottleneck, think
about solutions, and then identify the
bottlenecks in those solutions and keep
going. The more comfortable you are with
the process of identifying and proposing
solutions, the more effectively you can
get to a workable design in an interview
setting. We've covered a lot in this
problem. Async worker pools, fan out,
hotkey problem, sharding, and more.
Well, you're unlikely to encounter this
specific problem in your next interview.
The concepts we've covered should be
common to many more problems you'll see
both in interviews and as a practicing
software engineer. I hope this has been
helpful and until next time, see you